---
layout: docs
title: React-M User Guide
description: Get started with React-M™, the world's only data-triggered TODO management system.
toc: true
---

---------------------------------------

{% include image.html url="/assets/img/banner-2.jpg"  description="ms logo" %}

##### SUMMARY : 

1. [Introduction](./#introduction)


2. [Downloading](./#downloading)


3. [Account](./#account)


4. [Use](./#use)


5. [TODO](./#todo)


    A. [Motion Driven](./#motion-driven)


    B. [Feedback Driven](./#feedback-driven)
---------------------------------------

If you have any questions that are unanswered in this documentation, contact `jbardin@microshare.io`.


## Introduction
---------------------------------------

Microshare provides Data Strategy as a Service, enabling our clients to quickly capture previously hidden data insights that produce cost savings, sustainability metrics and business opportunities. Our solutions produce data on Day One, installed at scale quickly by non-technical staff and operate separate from sensitive corporate IT networks. Our solutions create a Digital Twin of your physical assets, providing comprehensive picture of their performance, the risks they face going forward, and the steps required to produce maximum returns from these assets.

React-M is a tool created by Microshare to bring reactivity to your team. Move from data analysis to action. From the data collected through your Microshare solution (feedback, motion, environment...) you can set up triggers and alerts to set up actions. 

You can definitely create email/text message notifications, but we created React-M for better management of TODOs. In one location you get all your TODOs, and you can claim and act on them. You know the **locations and requirements, you know what to do and when**. 

Through this User Guide, we will drive you through how to get the app working and how to use it. 

Want to learn more about Microshare solutions, check out our website at [microshare.io.](https://www.microshare.io/)


## Downloading
---------------------------------------

First, we will download the app :

[APPLE STORE](https://apps.apple.com/lk/app/react-m/id1600368531?platform=iphone)

[GOOGLE PLAY STORE](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=io.microshare.reactm&pli=1)

{% include image.html url="/assets/img/react-m/ReactMDemo.png"  description="react-m app store" %}

## Account
---------------------------------------

To use the app you will need to create a Microshare account at this URL : 
[https://app.microshare.io/login](https://app.microshare.io/login)

You can follow our user guide on "how to create an account" if necessary. 

## Use
---------------------------------------

You now have the app on your phone and your account created. 

#### 1) Login on the app :

{% include image.html url="/assets/img/react-m/login.png"  description="react-m login" %}

#### 2) You might find a home screen menu empty. 

Indeed you need to share your email with the administrator of your organisation, so you can get assigned to the TODOs. Once this is done when the TODO (you have been linked to) will be generated you will see it on your main menu like this : 

{% include image.html url="/assets/img/react-m/home.png"  description="react-m home" %}

#### 3) The TODOs 

{% include image.html url="/assets/img/react-m/claim.png"  description="react-m claim" %}

A Task is composed of a few elements : 
 - the location of the TODO (building, floor, Room, Asset, Id)
 - the due date (when this TODO has started)
 - potentially some tasks inside the TODO
 - a title
 - a status (4 status [Unassigned, Claimed, Started, Done], more details bellow)

Now we can use the app : 

{% include image.html url="/assets/img/react-m/home.png"  description="react-m home" %}

On this home menu, you can see 2 TODOs, we will define the TODOs here, and lower in this user guide we will talk about two common cases of TODOs. 

A TODO is a 3 steps workflow. 

######  3.a) The TODO is created someone has to claim it. 

When a TODO is created, generated by our data triggers like feedback or motions, it will generate a TODO following the management rules. If you are linked to TODO, you will receive a notification on your device, and the TODO will appear in your main menu. 

If you click on it, you will see that you can claim it : 

{% include image.html url="/assets/img/react-m/claim.png"  description="react-m claim" %}

If you claim it then this task is now assigned to you. You will have to then "start" the task and "finish" it. 

###### 3.b) You own the Todo you can act. 

As you see in the picture above the TODO can contain some clear details on what the actions are, but the TODO can also just be the name of a task that is known in your role (for instance "Clean this location" is enough for a cleaner to know what to do). Your management can decide what to put here it will not necessarily be a list of tasks in the TODO. 

Once you are at the location you can press the button "Start" to start doing your job, and once you are done simply press Complete. 

The process is as simple as that, you receive the TODOs, and you can claim, start and complete them. Then the TODO is done. 

###### 3.b) Variations. 

If you take too much time at any of these steps you will receive a notification to remind you to act on this TODO. Then after a long time, the TODO will be classified as "timeout" and disappear from your app. 

You can also cancel the TODO if you want to delete it, it will **delete it for all the people assign**, if you simply don't want to do it, **just ignore it.**

Finally, we will store some data on the timing of TODOs and locations of tasks to help your management organise their routes of cleaning and organisation better. 

## TODO
---------------------------------------

As explained, we create TODO based on IoT data and strategies. We mostly use this app for now as part of our Eversmart Washroom and Eversmart Clean Products. 
It means that these TODO are oriented to be used to strategise on bathroom cleaning. 

#### Motion Driven 

You can receive predictive cleaning requests, triggered by the number of motions going on in a bathroom you will receive a cleaning request for a location that reached the trigger. 

We want to clean the bathroom before it gets too dirty! 

#### Feedback Driven

If someone presses the feedback button on the bathroom if this is a service request that you have been assigned to answer by your manager on the Microshare side, then you will receive a notification and a new TODO will appear in your React-M app. 


 
